<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Copy">
<p class="cpytxth">Copyright © 2019 by Dylan Howard, Melissa Cronin, James Robertson</p>
<p class="cpytxt">All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner without the express written consent of the publisher, except in the case of brief excerpts in critical reviews or articles. All inquiries should be addressed to Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018.</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Skyhorse Publishing books may be purchased in bulk at special discounts for sales promotion, corporate gifts, fund-raising, or educational purposes. Special editions can also be created to specifications. For details, contact the Special Sales Department, Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018 or <a href="mailto:info@skyhorsepublishing.com">info@skyhorsepublishing.com</a>.</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Skyhorse<sup>®</sup> and Skyhorse Publishing<sup>®</sup> are registered trademarks of Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.<sup>®</sup>, a Delaware corporation.</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Visit our website at <a href="http://www.skyhorsepublishing.com">www.skyhorsepublishing.com</a>.</p>
<p class="cpytxt">10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available on file.</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Cover design by 5mediadesign</p>
<p class="cpytxt1"> Cover photo credit: The Mega Agency</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Print ISBN: 978-1-5107-5792-9</p>
<p class="cpytxt1">eBook ISBN: 978-1-5107-5823-0</p>
<p class="cpytxt">Printed in the United States of America</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>