<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Chapter01">
<p class="CN">CHAPTER 1</p>
<p class="CT"><span class="line">AUTOPSY OF A SCANDAL</span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Far from the hectic pace of central Manhattan, the cab horns and clamor die down as you enter the leafy streets of the Upper East Side.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">There, the stately and historic homes stand proud and quiet, decades of history behind their stony gray facades. One seems to hold even more stories than the others. Four buildings combined, it stretches across an entire block, consuming all the streetfront. Gargoyles crouch on the cornices. A thirty-foot wooden door stands impassive and foreboding at the center. Bill Cosby and Woody Allen are among the neighbors. Inside, there is a massive study, one like Sherlock Holmes would inhabit. A towering bookcase lines the back wall, an oil painting—perhaps an Old Master—in the center. Behind that painting, a safe. Inside that safe, hundreds of CDs and DVDs. On those, thousands of files. Photos and videos. Sexual. Showing young girls. Some, with old men.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">FBI agents stumbled upon this hidden trove of evil during a massive raid on the $56 million, 21,000-square-foot property, the home of billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein, on July 6, 2019. Hours before, Epstein had been arrested in New Jersey on charges of sex trafficking.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The files and their disturbing contents were the final legacy of a man who died trying to keep the secrets of a life filled with depravity; what he left behind, testaments to his sins.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">That New York fortress was a town house turned torture chamber, filled with oddities such as a painting of former president Bill Clinton in a blue dress and high heels, and a life-sized female doll hanging from a chandelier.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In the rooms that once hosted Manhattan’s elite—from Mort Zuckerman to Google cofounder Sergey Brin, magician David Blaine, Donald Trump, Chelsea Handler, Harvey Weinstein, former Clinton presidential aide George Stephanopoulos, Charlie Rose, and journalist Katie Couric—security cameras peered out from every nook and cranny.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Tucked deep inside the house, a dark room was stacked with monitors recording every moment. Close at hand was a printer.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In another hidden room among the seven stories, a massive professional-grade printer loomed in the shadows. On the walls in that hideaway were blown-up photographs of female bodies—their heads and faces cropped out of the frame. Deep in one dark hallway hung a giant blown-up photo of a grinning Epstein carrying a blonde four- or five-year-old girl on his shoulders. He had no children or nieces.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The same day as the New York raid, hundreds of miles away, agents swarmed Epstein’s Caribbean island, Little St. James—Little St. Jeff, to locals—and found more chilling relics. Through the window, we saw dozens of orange evidence bags stacked and ready for analysis. More photos of topless girls covered the walls. His mysterious temple—painted in the colors of the Israeli flag—at last, was breached. (Oddly, investigators found buckets of paint, ladders, and scaffolding inside, as if it had been recently renovated.) Still more files were recovered; dozens of secret cameras, discovered.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">As fossilized bones sketch the outlines of prehistoric beasts, so too do these remnants of one man’s life spin out into fearsome forms upon contemplation.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">What purpose would it serve Jeffrey Epstein—a man who had everything—to record and curate the most private moments of others?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The evidence points overwhelmingly to one possibility: blackmail.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In a world of disturbing secrets and deception, Epstein’s international web of blackmail was the aspect of his life that he most desperately tried to hide. Was it the one thing that could have truly destroyed it all?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Even more importantly, how was this web of blackmail connected to yet another question hanging over Epstein and his dark legacy: How did he amass a fortune to rival some of the richest individuals in the world?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Epstein was estimated to have been worth roughly $500 million at the time of his death, despite not having any public means of income. Financial documents uncovered in recent weeks show hundreds of millions of dollars flowing into his shady businesses in the US Virgin Islands: Southern Trust and Financial Trust. Local officials had given him an extremely lax tax deal. No one really asked questions.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">For Epstein, the money kept rolling in—and out—right up to the end.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Two days before his death was reported, he secretly signed a new will that placed his millions into a trust, forever hiding its movements. Listed as the executors were Darren K. Indyke and Richard D. Kahn, two longtime associates.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Epstein’s former colleague Steven Hoffenberg claims that Indyke and Kahn had once been tasked with investigating Epstein’s financial misdeeds at investment group Towers Financial in the 1990s, an investigation that ended with Hoffenberg sentenced to twenty years in prison for running a Ponzi scheme that the SEC considered to be one of the largest in history—at least, prior to Bernie Madoff’s crimes a decade later. Epstein, however, skipped off scot-free.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Why were those men chosen as executors?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Who really inherited Epstein’s trust?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">If he really died, why has his fortune not been seized as evidence in the ongoing investigation into his crimes?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Moreover, if no one inherited those millions . . . is it because he’s still alive?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">If so, where is Jeffrey Epstein?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Will he ever meet justice?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The answers are there, in what Epstein left behind. In his connections, his crimes, his financial dealings and fears, lies the truth.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">One of the most disturbing stories in recent memory, Epstein’s tale may also be the most complicated. Yet, it is lying right in front of you.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">All you have to do is put together the pieces.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>