<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Chapter05">
<p class="CN">CHAPTER 5</p>
<p class="CT"><span class="line">THE LITTLE BLACK BOOK AND THE LOLITA EXPRESS</span></p>
<p class="EPI"><span class="italic">“People think intelligence is just about tracking down terrorists, but if you could get into the company of people, former presidents, people who are working on some of the newest software and scientific developments. . . . That’s what intelligence really is.” </span></p>
<p class="EPI_A"><span class="italic">—Espionage expert Martin Dillon</span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">When Robert Maxwell died in 1991, Ghislaine hopped a plane and moved to Manhattan. Many people we spoke to believe she was ready to continue her father’s legacy. Guaranteed $100,000 a year from her father’s trust for the rest of her life, she found easy entrée into Manhattan society and was soon rubbing shoulders with billionaires and beauties in the City of Big Shots. So much so, Maxwell family friend Laura Goldman said that Ghislaine made social climbing her full-time job.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">In the nineties, I spent a lot of time in New York, and I met Ghislaine Maxwell at several parties, openings. Basically, if there was an opening, she was there. She is one of the most intelligent people I met. She’s lively, energetic.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I never quite understood what she did for a living, or if she did anything for a living. But she was a nice person.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">What people don’t understand about the Maxwells, though, is they’re very <span class="italic">Upstairs, Downstairs</span>. If you’ve seen <span class="italic">Downton Abbey</span> or other British dramas, they’re very upstairs and there’s a big separation. I really think she was raised not to worry about the other people. They were a means to an end.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Ghislaine saw something of value, however, in Jeffrey Epstein.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Said Goldman, “Ghislaine Maxwell was nice to every lady in the room. But she only had eyes for one person, and that was Jeffrey.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">I think it’s kind of apparent that they’re kindred souls. I believe that they definitely slept together, I just don’t believe they really dated. I think that the connection between them was that he had the cash and she had the connections.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Most of what I know about Ghislaine’s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein came from her sister Isabel. Isabel really thought that her sister couldn’t quit him, could not quit Jeffrey Epstein. She loved him and wanted to marry him.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">When you’re someone who’s dealt with abuse, you always think if you do one more thing right, that person will marry you, love you, and whatever. He wasn’t going to do that. But I really believe that she loved him, she cared for him, and wanted to marry him—and would do anything to make that happen.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Just how far would Ghislaine go?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Seemingly overnight, Ghislaine became Epstein’s closest confidante, best friend, and, eventually, something more. Meanwhile, Epstein’s new relationship with the European heiress drew the attention of the movers and shakers in the kingdoms of New York and Palm Beach.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">With Ghislaine by his side, Epstein had his passport to a whole new world. Now no longer just another flashy Wall Street nouveau riche hopeful, he was beginning to be seen as a serious player with serious influence.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Under Ghislaine’s guiding hand, Epstein threw lavish dinner parties with exclusive guest lists at his Upper East Side mansion, and more raucous affairs at his Palm Beach mansion. At first, the purpose of these early dalliances was to win friends and business connections. But darker elements were bubbling beneath the surface.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">While Ghislaine and Jeffrey posed happily for the cameras at exclusive events, they went even further to cultivate an inglorious secret social set behind closed doors—on Epstein’s private jet, later known as the Lolita Express.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">A three-engine 727 jetliner, the Lolita Express was actually a commercial liner retrofitted for personal use. Photos of the interior suggest what kind of use Epstein had in mind.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Plush and carpeted on almost every surface, the jet looked more like a 1970s adult film set than a mode of transportation, as our exclusive photo insert shows.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Rather than individual seats, banquettes lined the wall or curved together in cozy semicircles. The floor was padded.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In the back, there was a suite with a bed and secret shower.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The jet could host twenty-nine people comfortably, but Epstein and Maxwell more frequently hosted intimate affairs in the sky.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Flight logs we obtained in 2015 read like a who’s who of early 1990s society. From Hollywood, there were actors Kevin Spacey, comedian Chris Tucker, actor Ralph Fiennes, magician David Blaine, singers Jimmy Buffet and Courtney Love. Media moguls Charlie Rose and Bill Wallace make an appearance. From the world of tech, Bill Gates. Political leaders such as Tony Blair, Ehud Barak, and conservative scion David Koch.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Then, there was President Bill Clinton.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Clinton is never named in Epstein’s little black book of contacts, although his close friend and counselor Doug Band is, along with a listing for “42.” (Clinton was the forty-second president.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In the flight logs for Epstein’s Lolita Express, however, there was no such obfuscation. According to the logs, Clinton first hitchhiked on Epstein’s infamous Lolita Express in February 2002. They were joined by Ghislaine, her “assistant” Sarah Kellen, four members of the Secret Service, and five people identified only as “male,” “female,” or by their initials.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">According to the three-letter airport designations in the documents, the private jet flew from Miami International Airport to Westchester County Airport in New York State, where the Clintons have lived since 1999. On paper, it seems like an innocuous trip made by powerful men accustomed to brokering political and financial deals in unusual settings. But that notion changes when put into context.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">President Clinton has claimed that he only traveled on Epstein’s Lolita Express on four occasions.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Epstein and Clinton actually buddied up for six trips between 2002 and 2003, to Europe, Africa, and Asia. On their “humanitarian trips” to Africa, Clinton went without his usual security detail, and without chaperones. The men, it seemed, had hit it off.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Jeffrey is both a highly successful financier and a committed philanthropist with a keen sense of global markets and an in-depth knowledge of 21<sup>st</sup> century science,” Clinton said at the time, oozing his trademark characteristic sincerity. “I especially appreciated his insights and generosity during the recent trip to Africa to work on democratization, empowering the poor, citizen service, and combating HIV/AIDS.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Although Clinton referred to a single “trip” in his statement, in truth, they flew on Epstein’s jet thirteen times during that eight-day overseas outing. What’s more, they were routinely joined by controversial characters, like Hollywood actor—and accused pedophile—Kevin Spacey, who joined them on three of those flights, and Epstein’s “personal massage therapist” Chauntae Davis, who got onboard in Cape Town and flew with them to Paris. Davis has since come forward with tales of Epstein’s sexual abuse. (Spacey has denied all allegations of impropriety against him.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“On almost every trip that I did go on, there were young girls around,” Davis claimed.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In total, Clinton actually made twenty-seven trips with soon-to-be registered sex offender Epstein.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Clinton’s press secretary would later insist that all of their flights were taken “in connection with the work of the Clinton Foundation” and that every leg included the applicable staff, foundation supporters and members of the secret service. Clinton denied that he ever knew of anything untoward happening on board.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">At least one person, however, was suspicious. Cameron Humphries was director of the Santa Fe airport, just miles from the 10,000-acre Zorro Ranch, which Epstein purchased in 1993. He told reporter Katy Forrester, who collaborated on this book, that many people suspected how the Lolita Express had earned its name.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“When I was the manager there, it wasn’t unusual to see large private aircraft flying. You know, Santa Fe is a destination, and a lot of people fly in with a private aircraft,” Humphries said.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">He continued:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">What is unusual is to have somebody fly in with a large commercial type of aircraft that’s been converted into their own private aircraft. I remember distinctly one afternoon there was a 737 that was sitting on a ramp. It was obviously a private aircraft and I was just curious, and so I asked one of the employees from the fixed base operator there.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">A fixed base operator is a company that handles private aircraft instead of the commercial aircraft. They take care of the fueling and all of that. I asked one of the employees if they knew who owned it, and they had said “Jeffrey Epstein,” and I had never heard the name before. This employee said, you know, “There’s a rumor that he has a ranch here in New Mexico and that he flies in prostitutes. Some of them may not be of age of consent.” Young girls was kind of the implication. He made it clear to me that it was a rumor, but I was really just appalled by this idea, if it were true.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I didn’t know anything about him. I’d never heard the name before, so I didn’t know if he’d been in prison or not or whatever, but I was so appalled by this idea that I called our airport law enforcement liaison officer and I said, “Hey listen, this is just a rumor, but there’s this guy named Jeffrey Epstein that flew his private aircraft in, and apparently he’s also flying in underage women to his ranch.” I didn’t know the guy, I’d never met him before, but you know, I was just so upset about this idea of this man flying around the country with that kind of impunity that I felt like I needed to tell somebody, so I reached out to our law enforcement officer.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He said that he had heard the rumors as well, and that it was his understanding that there was a federal investigation ongoing. That there was probably not much that they could do locally, but that he would certainly report it up. That was kind of the end of it for me, you know? After reporting it, knowing that that at least I had said something. I’ll tell you, it was frustrating because it’s a bit of a black hole, right? You report it, and then what?</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">The rumors were out there, so people knew it. And not only did people know it, there were people that were complicit in it. Why did it take so long?</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Meanwhile, Epstein’s escapades were also starting to raise eyebrows on the East Coast.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">There, his team of drivers questioned why he had so many young girls as passengers.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Speaking here for the first time in print, Epstein’s longtime chauffeur.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I came forward in the hopes that I could help somebody, in the hopes that this doesn’t happen to somebody else, in the hopes that these girls that are now seeking justice could find something,” the chauffeur, who asked to remain anonymous, said. “My story may help, but I’m still afraid of what could happen.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">From 2001 to 2011, this professional driver made more than five hundred runs for Epstein, his girls, and his associates.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Back then, before 9/11, we used to actually pull up to the plane,” the chauffeur recalled. “There were times when you’d have five cars outside of the plane and he would get in one and Ms. Maxwell and the girls would get in another, and then people I didn’t recognize would get in other cars because it just seemed like he wanted to keep everybody separated.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The main port of call for Epstein’s mile-high crime wave was Teterboro Airport. Located on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River, it is a thirty-minute drive to Epstein’s uptown residence. The pimp and his posse used the transportation hub more than seven hundred times.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I was astonished that somebody could fly around like that,” he said. “He had a hectic schedule. He flew a $32 million jet like we drive our cars. . . . We had guys that were big time bankers, hedge fund managers and all that, that were customers of ours, celebrities that had jets. Nobody flew like he did. It was unbelievable.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Epstein certainly made an impression.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Epstein was an arrogant, aggressive guy who was in total control of the situation,” the chauffeur said. “He would sit back there and just direct you and give you orders. He was the king in the car. . . . I wasn’t even in the car as far as he was concerned. He was more interested in the girls and joking and playing with them and pinching them on the cheek.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">He continued:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">The girls seemed a little nervous and [Ghislaine] just kept reassuring them, “Don’t worry, everything will be okay. You’ll be fine. Just do what I told you to do. And when it’s all over you’ll be very happy. You don’t have to worry about anything and we’ll get you home as soon as you’re done.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">They were young. They would fly in on his jet all the time. . . . I mean it’s obvious. How could you have so many of these girls coming and going out of there? I mean, if we just dropped them off and left them there and picked them up in two weeks, you’d say, “Oh, well maybe it’s his niece or whatever.” But when you’re dropping them off for two hours and driving them right back, something’s up.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">One time, he was with two girls. I assumed they were relatives or nieces. . . . But I didn’t think anything of it at the time.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">We picked him up at Newark Airport and we took him and these two young ladies. I guess they were about sixteen, seventeen years old. These girls today, they look older than they are. But we took him and these two girls to his apartment on Seventy-first Street.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Like I said, I thought it was his nieces or something or his daughters, because at that time nobody even had a clue what was going on. But as time went on, myself and other drivers assumed something was fishy because we kept picking up these teenage girls and he couldn’t have that many nieces! We would sometimes take them there to the apartment. And we were told to wait two, three hours and then drive back to the point.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So at that time we started getting suspicious and a lot of the drivers started saying, “You know what, I don’t even want to drive for this guy anymore because there’s something wrong.” But needless to say, I needed the money at the time, I wasn’t married that long. I was in the process of buying a house. I wasn’t in a position to turn down rides. I didn’t know what was going on.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So I continued the work, and looking back today when I see all this stuff that’s come out, I feel terrible that maybe I could have done something to prevent people from being hurt at the time. When you look back, what are you going to do?</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">This was years before he was arrested. Nobody knew for sure, but we used to say, “Oh, I’ve got to go pick up the pedophile.” And then all this comes out and it was true.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">The chauffeur also was responsible for shuttling Epstein’s pilot Dave Rodgers and his co-pilot Larry Visoski to their regular accommodations in the captain’s building on Sixty-sixth Street.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I drove them a lot,” he admitted. “They never talked about where they went or who was on the plane. The only way I could gauge who was on the plane was the person that I was picking up. So they never talked about that kind of stuff. I guess, you know, he must have had them on a tight leash.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">When Epstein was arrested in 2008, Rodgers and Visoski were grounded for more than a year. But Epstein found other ways of using them. According to the chauffeur, the pilots were ordered to drive the felon’s Bentley from Florida to Texas to get it armor plated.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Epstein was afraid that somebody was going to try to shoot him,” the chauffeur claimed, recalling how the pilots “complained they had to drive all the way out there with the car because he was so paranoid.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“But they did it because they did whatever he was told to do. . . . You’ve got this guy that’s overpowering them and giving them money. It’s a sad state of affairs.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“We were like a courier service, so to speak,” he said. “I overheard them talking one time that they had a safe there. Dave mentioned to Larry that Jeffrey called and wanted him to take the stuff that was out of the safe and bring it to him. So I don’t know what it was, but there was a safe in that apartment.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Indeed, there was a safe—one that police cracked open after Epstein’s second arrest, finding thousands of pictures and videos of unsuspecting subjects in sexual situations.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Looking in the proverbial rearview mirror, Epstein’s personal chauffeur reflected on Epstein’s gigantic web of blackmail, likening him to a mob boss.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“He was like the Godfather of the sky,” the driver concluded. “He could do whatever he wanted, whenever he wanted, and nobody could touch him because he had money, he had influence, and he had dirt on all these people. And he was able to control and manipulate everything because everybody was afraid of him. Nobody would want that stuff to come out.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Today, the chauffeur has regrets about not coming forward sooner. Although, he and the other drivers certainly had their reasons.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“It just seems that these people with power and money and prestige, when they’re involved in something, they will go out of their way and do anything they can to silence everybody.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Epstein was paranoid years ago that someone was going to kill him and now he’s dead,” the driver explained. “They say it was suicide and whether it was or it wasn’t. You know what? Karma’s a bitch and you get what you’ve got coming. I think he was guilty of all that stuff and all the proof that’s coming out says that it was true. So my feeling is that he got just what he deserved. It’s just a shame that it happened so soon before these people could get their justice. But the bottom line is, he’s gone and it’s just another piece of garbage out of this world.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">For the chauffeur, though, this tale has a particularly chilling ending.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“The guy who owned the company that I worked for, the Wednesday before Epstein killed himself, he died mysteriously in New Jersey,” the chauffeur revealed. “I don’t know if it’s connected in any way, but it just seems funny that the guy who owned the company for all those years mysteriously died three days before he did.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I don’t know, it’s crazy. But I don’t want to end up like that.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">More and more, it was becoming clear that Epstein was not just a jet-setting international playboy. Those around him, however, continued to keep their silence. Are they responsible for what followed?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Model and actress Alicia Arden told these authors that she was sexually assaulted by Epstein in 1997. Although she filed a police report, she claims, no one would listen to her allegations about the powerful businessman.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">In May 1997, my good friend knew Jeffrey Epstein. She was in finance at the time, and I guess he was too, although no one seemed to know anything about him. I didn’t even know who he was. I didn’t hear of his name at all. So she apparently knew of him because she worked legitimately in finance. So she met him at the Beverly Hills Hotel.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">She went in there in a different matter, of wanting to work with his company, or his company coming over to work with hers, or merging in some capacity. Some capacity in the finance world. And then he started telling her that she was really pretty, and “Do you want to model for Victoria’s Secret?”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">She was not a model, and she didn’t want to do that. She said, “No, I don’t want to model. But my friend Alicia does. You should meet her.” So then Jeffrey said, “Have her call me. I work for Victoria’s Secret. I could get her in the catalog.” And she said, “Oh, great. She would love that.” And then he told her, “Any other girls that you know of, have them call me.” So then I did.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I called him and he told me to send my pictures to him, to his apartment on Madison Avenue, in New York. At the time, I was excited. I thought I was really going to get a picture or job in the Victoria’s Secret catalog, because he told me that he worked for that. I was like, “This is great!” I was excited that I had kind of a hookup, where I’m not really going to go on an audition with a sea of girls.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I bought more Victoria’s Secret lingerie, and I had a photographer shoot me in more pictures, in that specific brand, and then I sent those photos along with my existing book of pictures, my tear sheets.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was not a model who was starting out. I had an array of work in tear sheets, and beautiful pictures. So I took all these extra pictures for him, along with the existing ones, and I Federal Expressed them to his apartment in Manhattan, on Madison.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He called me and said he got the pictures, and they were great, and he’s going to have a woman named Kimberly, his secretary, call me to set up a time. So she did, and she said he was coming out there, to Santa Monica, California. And, “Would you like to meet him in the afternoon or the evening?”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">It’s not normal with all these modeling and acting jobs I’ve done, and auditions, for someone to call me and say we’re going to meet in a hotel room. I have been in auditions in hotels, but there’s other people, and you know that the casting is there. There’s like a sign at the door, and you have to sign in, and you’re there with a lot of other people. But I didn’t think that there were going to be other people there that day. I thought, “This is a hookup. This is a major in, to getting in the Victoria’s Secret catalog, because my friend met him and then the secretary’s calling me, and he’s already seen my pictures. So he likes me. I’m not going to have to go on a casting with other girls. He’s just going to hire me, because he’s already seen my pictures, and I’ll get at least one picture in the catalog.” So I was very happy about that.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I wanted to go in the afternoon. I thought that was better. I still had reservations about going into a hotel. But I thought, you know, this is Santa Monica, California, and this is Shutters. It’s a very expensive, beautiful hotel. But I never went back, for anything, after I went there that day.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So it was set up in the afternoon. I was very excited. I mean I just visualized positive things, like, “I’m going to get in the Victoria’s Secret catalog, and here’s my portfolio, and just walk in and show my pictures to him, and then he can ask me about photos.” Usually they ask you, “Where did you do that magazine? Did that come out? When was that? When did you take that picture?”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">But I was just really expecting to already have the job, because of what had happened. My friend met him, the secretary called me, he said he worked for Victoria’s Secret, and I thought, “Oh I’ll get at least one picture. There’s not a casting with all these other girls, or a sign-in sheet. It’s just me meeting him, thinking like that picture would be great in the catalog.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Well, so I got there, and I walked in the front door, and he was kind of in the back, like in a kitchen, at a table. These hotels are kind of like, you could live there. It looks like a mini apartment. And they’re on the beach.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He was kind of in the back, in a USA sweatshirt, and black sweatpants, and barefoot. Usually they are dressed a little bit more professional than that, the people who are auditioning.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was sitting on the couch, kind of like I am now, and he was kind of far away from me. I went to give him my portfolio, and then I went back to the couch.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Then he was looking through it. I had a tendency sometimes to want to kind of stuff my bra a little bit to look bustier. I don’t know why I was doing that, because nowadays they don’t like you to do that in swimsuits and lingerie. But I did that, and then he was looking at my pictures, and then he was saying, “Oh, you look a little bustier in this picture, and you look a little bustier in that picture.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So I said, “Well, Jeffrey, I photograph different all the time. I’m very athletic. I could look bustier or not.” Sometimes I would pad bras or wear two bras. I didn’t really have to do that. I just kind of did it, and so he would make a comment on that.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Then he was looking and then he was saying, “Oh, well you look a little bit hippy in this picture.” I said, “I mean I can photograph any way that you want. It’s just the angle of the picture, the lighting, the photographer, or if I’m put in a skirt.” So then he wanted me to come closer to him.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I got up off the couch, and then I walked closer to him, to the kitchen table. So he wanted me to come closer to him, and he said, “Well, let me see your hips and your butt.” And he was just starting to look at me, and he said, “I need to manhandle you.” So I came closer to him, and he was touching my chest, and my stomach, and then moved down to my hips and my butt.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He was kind of like evaluating my body, and then he started to lift up my skirt, kind of assisting me in undressing, and trying to take off my top. And I just thought, “You don’t do this in a normal audition at all.” So he was lifting up my skirt, and my top, and touching me, and he said, “I want to manhandle you.” He said the word “manhandle” twice. And I’ve never heard that word from anyone ever again in my entire life. Not from anyone, like professional, nonprofessional, friends, or anything. I’ve never heard that word.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So he was touching my hips and my butt, and my buttocks and wanting to lift my skirt up and said he wanted to manhandle me. So I started to feel uncomfortable. And I just thought, “I have to get out of here before anything really bad happens.” I had a friend who was raped and murdered around that time, so I always thought about that. I said to myself, “I never wanted to be raped. Never.” I felt if I didn’t leave, it could lead to that.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So, he was touching me. My shirt was kind of coming off. I just put it all down and got my book and went to leave. When I was doing that, he was putting a hundred dollars on the table.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was like, “I don’t need that, Jeffrey. I’m starting to feel like a prostitute. I don’t need that. I’m not here for that.” So I left it, and then I took my portfolio and I walked out of the hotel room.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I filed a police report. They weren’t taking me seriously enough to even file. And then I went back a week later and did it anyway.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I guess the police officers ended up calling him, and he said, “Oh no. I don’t know why she’s doing that. She doesn’t know what she’s talking about.” Meaning me. But I documented everything he said, in a report, and I’ve never done that in my entire life, before or after that. I never needed to do that, but I felt I needed to [do that], with him. And I documented everything. It’s all in writing, saying that I went in there, and what happened.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">If the police officers would’ve taken me seriously and kind of investigated him, all those years ago, then maybe . . . It’s very upsetting, because I’ve thought about that for a long time. If the police officer and the Santa Monica Police Department would’ve investigated him, and taken me seriously, then I think he could have saved all the girls, the high school girls from being raped and attacked. Then maybe the girls could’ve been saved.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">But I really wasn’t taken seriously. My family, my friends discouraged me. Everyone discouraged me from going over there and filing the police report, because I wasn’t physically raped.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was assaulted, and I felt I could’ve been raped. He was touching me and taking my clothes off, and I felt if I didn’t get out of there, it could’ve been worse. So did it need to be worse? Did I need to be raped? Did I physically need to be raped for anyone to take me seriously?</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">It could’ve saved all the girls from being attacked. And I don’t know, his circle of friends, they just kind of put it under the cover, and socialized with him at events. That’s what I saw in the news.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">No one cared. Not just the police officers, but no one in his circle cared to see what he was doing.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">For some of Epstein’s friends, it was more that they <span class="italic">did</span> see what he was doing, but they just didn’t care—because they were doing it, too.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">What was it that brought these leaders of industry, media, and politics into the inner circle of a college dropout?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Maxwell family friend Laura Goldman has a theory, as she explains here:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">I believe that Jeffrey Epstein was a genius, a savant, at understanding rich people.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">This is what I know. Rich people are cheap, and rich people love nice things. What I believe that Jeffrey Epstein understood that and he provided people like Bill Gates, Bill Clinton with private planes, luxurious private planes and they just ate it up. It’s a sad commentary on our society.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He understood that waving a private plane in front of Bill Clinton would make him a friend for life. He understood that offering a ride on the Lolita Express to Bill Gates and offering to talk to him about philanthropy would entice Bill Gates.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He understood your weak point. It may be that he was exceptionally good at it and exceptionally good at understanding rich people, but it is the method of all bullies to do that.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Epstein also paid for prestige, literally.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">He gave $180,000 to the West Palm Beach nonprofit organization Ballet Florida and earmarked some of the cash for “therapeutic” massages. He gave $25,000 to a junior tennis center in Maryland, $30,000 to a preschool in New York, $15,000 to an all-girls private school a few blocks from his mansion in Manhattan, and, perhaps least unsurprisingly, nearly $100,000 to his former employer, Dalton.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">From the 1990s through 2018, Epstein also gave hundreds of thousands of dollars to politicians on both sides of the aisle, including the Clintons and their foundation, President George H.W. Bush, Ohio Senator John Glenn, New York Senators Charles Schumer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, Ohio Governor John Kasich, former Secretary of State John Kerry, and New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson (who would later be named in court documents as a coconspirator, a claim he vehemently denies).</p>
<p class="paraIndent">This is not a case of guilt by association. All of those men insist they had no idea what Epstein was doing. But ultimately, there <span class="italic">were</span> people who knew what was going on and could have had stopped Epstein’s exploitation . . . and no one did.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“They either indulge in these behaviors, or they like that someone does,” Goldman said of the uber-rich. “Why hasn’t been Bill Gates been forced to answer why he was on the Lolita Express? Why is Leslie Wexner still CEO of The Limited? Anyone that allegedly facilitated Jeffrey Epstein’s crimes should serve a minimum of twenty years in jail. I do not think those people are redeemable. There’s no way to rehabilitate them.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Epstein’s former friend Kornbluth, meanwhile, suggests that powerful men are conditioned to believe that presumption of guilt “does not apply” to them.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">No one says “no” to them. No one. The idea that these men would have sex with an underage girl, and that that would cause them any trouble, any blowback, it doesn’t occur.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Worst of all, Goldman said, are the British aristocracy.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I think that the French and the English and the aristocracy of Europe are deviants,” she told Marc Lupo.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">At least one is.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>