<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Chapter08">
<p class="CN">CHAPTER 8</p>
<p class="CT"><span class="line">DONALD TRUMP AND THE PALM BEACH PEDOPHILE</span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Palm Beach in the late eighties and nineties was the perfect playground for a man like Jeffrey Epstein: decadent, debaucherous, and deeply corrupted.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I spent a lot of time in Palm Beach at that time,” said Maxwell family friend Laura Goldman.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">She continued:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">Palm Beach is a live-and-let-live kind of place. Lots of rich libertarian types. I don’t think that they mixed with their neighbors, because they didn’t want their neighbors to know what they were doing. I think the police force down there is pretty ineffective. We’ve seen that they are. I think that people are there on vacation, they didn’t want to rock the boat.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I spent a lot of time in Palm Beach at that time. I’d been to their house on Brillo Way. It was kind of not my scene and there were lots of young ladies. Even though I was much younger then, they were even younger than me, and I really couldn’t compete in that scene.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Now I feel bad because I got a sense that something was off. I didn’t really pay attention to what was off. Now, when I see what’s happened to all these girls, I feel incredibly terrible that I didn’t ride by more often, like a bike crusader, and stop it.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Everybody knew that he was looking for young girls. But I didn’t realize, one, that they were young, that young, and I didn’t realize that he was trafficking them. But it doesn’t surprise me that the Palm Beach police looked away.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">People don’t understand about Palm Beach in the nineties and at that time, there was no South Beach. So, Palm Beach was where all the decadent people went. The Palm Beach police kind of looked the other way.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I visited with other people Jeffrey Epstein’s house in the late nineties. I noticed that it wasn’t the grandest house on the block, but it was the most private.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Another visitor, Epstein’s former attorney Alan Dershowitz, told this investigation’s reporter, Jen Heger, that the home held many secrets.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Insisting he knew nothing of Epstein’s illegal escapades, Dershowitz described, “In his house in Palm Beach, there were two stairways. One of them, you were not allowed to go up.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“He had locked doors,” Dershowitz continued. “I was never in that part of the house. The same thing is true in his house in New York.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Those doors were finally opened, however, during a later police raid on the home. After years of relentlessly hounding the local authorities, these authors were able to obtain the official video. The following is a description of its content:</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Many guests entered the home through the kitchen, a bright and airy space with a black and white checkered floor and cozy bar stools around the island. Heading through there to a back staircase, however, it got literally darker.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Carpeted in lilac and bound by white walls, the staircase spiraled up to the upper level, home to several bedrooms, bathrooms, and of course, the massage room.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">It all begins innocently enough. At the top of the staircase is a landing with pink carpeting and a comfy pink couch. There’s a photograph of palm trees and the ocean.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Turning left, you enter a den of several tiny bedrooms—rooms scarcely big enough to hold both a bed and a dresser, but bright and bedecked with cheap art. In nearly every room, the only item of clothing to see was a white robe. In another bedroom, there was a teddy bear.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Moving back across the landing and to the right, the atmosphere changes. First, there is an antechamber of sorts, a dark room with chairs, similar to a waiting area. On the wall, a close-up photo shows hands tightly gripping someone’s leg, fingers digging into the flesh. On another wall hung a photo so graphic it was the only image blurred from the police video. [Attorney Spencer Kuvin would later tell our team that one of his clients, a victim of Epstein, remembered one photo “of a young girl who could have been no more than twelve or thirteen years old with her panties pulled down around her ankles bent over.”] Dominating another wall was a 3-D rendering of a woman’s torso, seen from the back, and cut off just below and above the rear end. The curves protrude inches from the wall.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Moving deeper into the next room, that same rear view is re-created in a painting. Another painting shows a nude woman lying down with her legs spread, dark pubic hair at the center of the frame; her breasts, very small.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Moving deeper still: the massage room. Immediately upon entry, there is a large ink drawing of Ghislaine smiling softly and looking toward the massage table, as if she presides over what would happen there. Below her, a small model airplane calls to mind the Lolita Express. At the back of the room, the massage table.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">There are oils, lotions, and a large vibrating “massager” (later described by multiple victims as an instrument of sexual assault). More stacked towels, more hanging robes. His bedroom is nearby.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In Epstein’s personal quarters, the “art” becomes even more disturbing. One photograph captures a wet woman in the shower, from behind. A line drawing depicts a naked woman’s torso from the side. Yet another, directly from the front. Yet another, a naked woman curled in the fetal position. Not far away, stacks of personal stationery bearing his name.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In a closet filled with men’s clothes, dozens of small, personal photographs are framed, collage-style on the walls. Most show young women. Most of them are topless. There’s also a picture of Epstein and a brunette standing in front of the United States Presidential Seal, in what appears to be the White House briefing room.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Still more candid photos of female companions bedeck the walls of his personal gym, downstairs and off the pool. One image shows a blonde toddler, missing teeth, grinning into the camera as she climbs out of a pool. Another, a blonde toddler in a dress. Still another, a young blonde girl with no pubic hair stretched out naked and apparently unconscious on a beach. An extremely tight closeup of a female rear end.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Tucked away in the gym bathroom, there is a photo of an arrogant-looking man—not Epstein. Featured in our photo insert, the man has an amber, almost orange hair sculpted into a perilous combover. His hand, rather small, is raised casually in the air as his elbow rests on the arm of his chair. He wears a billowy, ill-fitting button-down and slacks, staring pompously, with his lips pursed, into the camera. Behind him, a young brunette in a white tank top stands with her hands just above his shoulders, as if she was in the midst of giving him a massage. Behind her, another young brunette returns the favor, massaging the first girl’s shoulders as well. Behind the second brunette, a blonde in the chunky black sandals popular with nineties teens grins at the camera while massaging the second girl. A four-way massage, as only Epstein could orchestrate.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein were close friends during that heady Palm Beach era.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I’ve known Jeff for 15 years,” Trump told <span class="italic">New York</span> magazine in 2002, placing his first connection with Epstein in 1987, two years <span class="italic">before</span> he would step foot on Robert Maxwell’s <span class="italic">Lady Ghislaine</span> yacht.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“He’s a terrific guy,” Trump continued. “It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side.” If he believed that, why didn’t he report Epstein to the police? Perhaps he didn’t think the girls were that young. Or perhaps it was because he was, in some form, Epstein’s wingman.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In the early nineties, following Trump’s divorce from Ivanka Trump, the two were constant companions.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">A recently unearthed archival video from 1992, recorded by NBC News, shows the two pervy playboys whispering and laughing, surrounded by women at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago—the same place from which Virginia Roberts had been recruited. Next to them was an editor for the <span class="italic">National Enquirer</span>, Larry Haley, who was reported to have been assigned full-time to the Trump “beat” for the scandal sheet.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In 2000, Trump and Epstein were photographed attending an event on the same property with Prince Andrew and Trump’s wife Melania.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">According to insiders, Trump had full privileges at Epstein’s Palm Beach home, as well. He’s since denied ever being close with Epstein, but attorney Spencer Kuvin, who represents one of Epstein’s victims, claims the evidence suggests otherwise.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“We knew from deposition testimony that we took in the civil cases from a few of the people that work within Mr. Epstein’s home that Donald Trump was more than just a casual acquaintance of Mr. Epstein,” he told reporter Doug Montero.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">We knew that because even on one occasion, we were aware that Mr. Trump had come to the house and stopped by and just ate in Mr. Epstein’s kitchen. And just sat there, and chatted, and ate in the kitchen with him. So, this was more than just a casual acquaintance. This was somebody that he knew and that they spoke with one another, they socialize with one another.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">We also knew that Epstein and Trump had gone to parties together at Mar-a-Lago that Mr. Trump had arranged. We knew that one of the victims that came forward and accused Epstein of essentially turning her into a sex slave was found at Mar-a-Lago originally, she was working there, and that’s where Epstein got her from.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So, we also know through stories that have come forward now from two young girls that were sisters that were in the New York area, that Mr. Trump had stopped by Mr. Epstein’s New York home on occasion as well. So as far as high-profile friends, we certainly knew that Mr. Trump was a close friend of Mr. Epstein during those exact years that Mr. Epstein was molesting these young girls. . . . These are two gentlemen that definitely ran in the same circles.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Later, Epstein’s flight logs would show an entry for Trump on the Lolita Express. Not only was his phone number found in Epstein’s little black book; but also, more than a dozen additional ways to contact him.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">After Epstein’s crimes became public, Trump attempted to distance himself. He reportedly barred Epstein from Mar-a-Lago in 2008, and said in 2019, “I knew him like everybody in Palm Beach knew him,” insisting, “I was not a fan.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Indeed, during those years Epstein was an inescapable and infamous figure in Palm Beach, one who made little effort to conceal his dark deeds from friends, acquaintances, and even strangers. Although few were invited upstairs or into his more personal quarters, his home was small, and the images could easily have been discovered.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">As Epstein threw raucous parties for Palm Beach’s elite, was he toeing the line, taking some small thrill from the possibility of being exposed? Or was he using the sexual images and young women throughout the property as bait?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Kuvin told Montero: “We had heard that Mr. Epstein had created videos of high-profile individuals inside of his home and kept them as insurance. And maybe he had provided women to some of these individuals, or young girls.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Maxwell family friend Laura Goldman attended one such debaucherous party at the Palm Beach mansion, and was disturbed by what she found.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“There was a bar in Palm Beach in the nineties called Chuck &amp; Harold’s,” Goldman explained. “It’s not there anymore. Somebody there invited me to the party. Most of the crowd at that place at the bar scene were old Palm Beach, Wall Streeters and that kind of people.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">She continued:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">The reason I went to Jeffrey Epstein’s house in the first place was the rumor was that he was throwing wild parties. Nobody knew who he was, really, at that time because it was before he took Bill Clinton on his plane. I thought, “Oh, well, let me check this out!” Then I got there and I thought, “Maybe I shouldn’t check this out.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I noticed there were some drugs around. I noticed girls. And I noticed a lot of married men that didn’t seem to be there with their wives, which is sort of why I’m not mentioning who was there . . .</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">In the nineties, drug use wasn’t quite as common on Wall Street as it is now, or as open. I noticed at the party that people were wandering off to private rooms and God only knows what they were doing in there: drugs, women, whatever.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">So I said, “Oh, maybe this isn’t the party scene for me.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Many of Epstein’s party guests never could have guessed that what happened during the daytime at the house on El Brillo Way was even more disturbing.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In 2005, a mother called Florida’s Palm Beach Police Department, frantic, claiming that her fourteen-year-old daughter had been enticed to Epstein’s nearby mansion. There, the woman claimed, the teenager was paid $300 to strip to her underwear and massage the fifty-two-year-old. Her secret had been discovered when school administrators found the cash on her after a playground fight.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">On her word, Detective Joseph Recarey launched a year-long undercover investigation into Epstein and exactly what was happening behind the walls of his mansion. What he found was worse than even the seasoned investigators could have imagined.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Ultimately, they spoke to thirty-four victims. The girls’ stories were chilling in their similarity.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In a buried videotaped police victim interview we obtained, one skinny and skittish young woman reveals the horrible secret she’d been hiding for years.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Every girl that meets Jeffrey starts off with giving him a massage,” she said. “The more you do with him, the more you make. Basically, if you take off your clothes, you’re going to make more. If you let him do things to you, you’re going to make more.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“By do things, you mean touch you?” a detective asked.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Yes, touch you in inappropriate places,” she answered. “I did it naked, but I wouldn’t let him touch me or anything like that. So after that, he says, ‘You know what, listen, I’ll pay you $200 for every girl you bring to me.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“It was like a train,” she said. “I brought my friends, they brought their friends, and it went on and on.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Did Jeff know anybody’s real true age or he didn’t care?” a detective asked.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">She said, “I don’t think he cared. He told me the younger, the better.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">A cache of police victim interview videos obtained by <span class="italic">Epstein: Devil in the Darkness</span> reveals a chilling detail. Police entered the videos into evidence marked with the victims’ birthdates. Recorded throughout 2005, the anonymous dates are a haunting reminder of just how young Epstein’s victims were, even years after their abuse by Epstein:</p>
<p class="paraIndentT">6/1/86</p>
<p class="paraIndent">8/09/86</p>
<p class="paraIndent">12/30/86</p>
<p class="paraIndent">9/21/86</p>
<p class="paraIndent">12/30/86</p>
<p class="paraIndent">2/8/87</p>
<p class="paraIndent">6/6/87</p>
<p class="paraIndent">6/18/87</p>
<p class="paraIndent">6/30/87</p>
<p class="paraIndent">10/10/87</p>
<p class="paraIndent">2/29/88</p>
<p class="paraIndent">3/8/88</p>
<p class="paraIndent">4/19/88</p>
<p class="paraIndent">4/21/88</p>
<p class="paraIndent">7/28/88</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">One young victim recruited for Epstein by a high school friend was sixteen-year-old Michelle Licata. Licata spoke to our reporter Marjorie Hernandez, describing the horror of El Brillo Way.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Life before Jeffrey Epstein was football games, cheerleading competitions,” Licata said. “When I met Jeffrey Epstein I was, I think about sixteen years old and I had just started a job at Publix. I was a cashier. I was trying to get into a different crew of friends that I wanted to hang out with. . . . There was a girl that I went to high school with and she was part of that group.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Licata continued:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">I can’t remember what class we were in, but she was sitting right next to me. She was writing me a note. She asked if I wanted to make some extra money for Christmas. Having seven brothers and sisters, I thought that this is going to be the year that I’m going to get everybody something. That’s exactly what I wanted to do.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">She was writing me a note and said, “Do you want to make some extra money?” I was like, “Yeah! I mean, how do you do that?” She said that she’s done it and that you just massage old guys. I was like, “Okay.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was like, “Do you have to have a license, like a massage license to do that?” She said no. Then she said, “But if you tell anybody, I will kick your ass.” I was like, “Okay.” I didn’t understand why she’d want to beat me up if I said that. Maybe she was embarrassed because she had to massage old guys, like wrinkly old men. That’s the vision that I had in my head. Maybe that’s why I wasn’t supposed to say anything. She took the note and crumpled it up and threw it away.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was working at Publix at the time and she came picked me up. Then she started to take me down to Palm Beach. . . . When we started going down there, I was like, “Well this would make sense. It’s where rich people live. She said you can make some money. That’s where you would go.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">What I had envisioned in my mind was completely different than what was about to happen. I realized it when we pulled into someone’s driveway. I was thinking it was going to be like a building or a facility or something where there’s massage tables, but it was not like that at all.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I remember her just saying, “If somebody asks just say that you’re eighteen. I don’t think that they’re going to ask, but just say that you are.” I was like, “Okay.” Once again still thinking that it’s . . . You have to have a massage license. Maybe you had to be the age of eighteen to get that license? That’s the way that I was thinking about it.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">We walked in through the back door. . . . There was a lady, I think two ladies that walked in behind us. One kept on walking past and then one was there and she was telling me, “Hi. I’m so-and-so.” I don’t remember her exact name. She had a clipboard in her hand. She looked like this model, really beautiful, tall, skinny blonde girl. . . .</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">She told me to write down my name and my number on the counter. . . . Then she’s like, “I just want you to come follow me.” . . .</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">We walked out of the kitchen and we’re going up this staircase. It was like half a spiral staircase. She was just prepping me to go into this room and she was telling me, “So the temperature’s going to be cooler, Jeffrey’s going to be in there. He’s going to be making some phone calls. There’s going to be some lotions on the counter. Just go ahead and start massaging him and just listen to what he says and what he wants you to do and just go ahead and do that.” I was like, “Okay.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I went in there and there was . . . Like she said there was lotion set up on a vanity. There was already money sitting out.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Jeffrey Epstein came in and he introduced himself. He asked me what my name was and I told him, “Hi, I’m Michelle.” He looked like he was about to get on the phone and just go and do business, make phone calls.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">When he came into the room, he had on a towel and that was it. He had it wrapped up around him and he just walked in. He still had on the towel when he was laying on his stomach and he just got onto the phone. He said there’s lotion and he set a timer. There was a timer on the table and he set that. He was asking me to . . . He got on the phone.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He was like, “Just go ahead and massage my feet.” Every once in a while, “Go ahead and massage my calves. Go ahead and massage this and that.” I was like okay, this seems to be normal. This would be a massage like any normal place. Then he got off the phone and he started talking to me.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">That’s when I knew this was going to go wrong. When he started asking me very personal questions about my sex life. He was asking me how many guys I’d ever been with. Do I have a boyfriend? You look so beautiful.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">You’re fighting back and forth like, “I don’t understand what’s really going on, but this old man is telling me to do things.” Then also you don’t really know who is this person, who is he? Does he have a gun? Is he going to kidnap me right now and lock me up in some kind of basement?</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Then on top of it, putting his hand on my hip and spinning me, like, “Do a spin for me. Let me see what you look like.” It’s like okay, but you’re not really sure if you said no, what would happen? That’s what I was afraid of is if I say no, am I going to be killed?</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">What are my options for getting out of this room alive? Because so far, my mind has been wrong since pulling into a house and a driveway it has gone wrong. It just keeps getting worse and worse. We’re not at this place that I thought we’re going to be going to. There’s one person and now he is looking at me. Now he’s getting into a place into my head that is a very personal place. He is digging. He is digging in . . . That to me is worse than what he could do or touch me.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He took this really private place and he turned it into a nightmare for a really long time. It still haunts me. . . . I mean, here I am. I wrote down in my planner that I stayed on the phone until 4:00 in the morning with a boy. That’s what I thought was just so awesome. Then to have or I think I wrote, I kissed so-and-so. I mean, that’s where my mind was. That’s the level of sexuality that I was at.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">At this point I was in my bra and my underwear and I remembered the bra because it was one particular bra that I ever had really that was like that. It clipped in the front. He had popped it off. He just kept telling me he liked that and to do that. It just got more just grabby and turning me and looking at me. I just kept thinking if that timer could just hurry up, I would just really love to get out here. . . .</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">He knew that I was uncomfortable. He continued anyways. He was really going to town on himself. He kept going and then at one point he just, I guess finished and he jumped up, wrapped his towel around him. He said, “Okay, thank you. I would really love to see you again. There’s $200 there for you. Your number and your name make sure it’s downstairs before you go. I will call you and have you come back.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was just thinking, “Oh my God, you’ve got to be kidding. You’re out of your mind. You’re out of your mind if you think I will ever be here again in my entire life.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I just went back downstairs. . . . I guess my friend saw the terror on my face. I was just freaked out and she said, “What happened?” I was like, “I will tell you in the car. Just get out of here right now. I want to go home.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">We got in the car and she’s like, “What?” I was like, “He was trying to finger me and stuff.” She’s like, “That’s it? That’s not a big deal. He tried to do that with my last friend.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was like, “What’s your last friend? How many people have you brought?” It was like this feeling of just being used as someone’s play toy. I just put my sunglasses on and I looked out the window. It was like forty-five minutes’ drive back to my car.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was just crying without her knowing the whole way home. I was just thinking about, I don’t know. How’s anybody ever going to love me?</p>
<p class="paraIndentT">Ashamed, Licata told only her very best friend what had happened, and tried to move on. A year later, she got a visit from the police.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“I was seventeen, and some men in some black suits showed up at my house,” she told Hernandez. “My brother answered the door and he was like, ‘Michelle there’s some men in black suits looking for you. Why?’ I was like, ‘I have no idea.’</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">I went out there and I was talking to them. They said, “Do you know Jeffrey Epstein?” I was like, “No.” I thought it was some kid. I thought some kid died in school.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">They kept talking and I’m trying to think of like, “Was I doing something in high school?” I was still thinking, “Who did I hang out with at school that may have wanted to hurt themselves or kill themselves?” and I was like, “What’s happening?”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Then they said Palm Beach. It all just came back, rushed all through my body.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I was just like, “Oh my God. I was like, I’m in trouble. These men have found me and I’m going to go to jail.” I thought I was going to jail.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I met up with them in a parking lot, which is still really sketchy, in a parking lot right next to my work. We’re in their car and they had a recorder and they were recording me.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">They didn’t explain a whole lot, just like, “Well this has happened to other girls. It’s okay you can tell us what happened.” There wasn’t any like, “Hey, let’s get together. Why don’t you come down to the station while we do this?” You would think any normal police investigation would be like fingerprints or something, or I don’t know what their goal was that day, but it didn’t make me feel safer to talk to them.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">The police, when I was talking to them and in the car with them, they were just asking me what happened. They just wanted to know what I knew. What information I had. Do I remember anybody that was there? How did you end up there? They just asked me to tell my story to them as to what happened.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Apparently it was because there was one girl that came out and actually said something. I think she told her mom, and her mom brought it to the police’s attention. Then because Jeffrey Epstein had a bunch of names and phone numbers and stuff that he had in his possession, and I think they found something of that nature and that’s how they could find the girls. Because they told me that they found my name and my phone number in his house. They wanted to ask me some questions about what was happening there.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I recently just listened to the recording from that day. I remember just sounding so terrified that I was in trouble. That I was so young, I was such a little girl still when I was saying stuff. I was like, “So he was masturbating.”</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">You could tell I didn’t even really know the right words were to tell these men, these once again older men, that were recording me in a car, in a parking lot. That happened.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Then I think the FBI sent a lady to come meet up with me and we spoke together as well in the parking lot of a hospital. She recorded our conversation. It was just her and I, then I redid the story.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">After I gave my statement to the Palm Beach police department and the FBI agent I was never contacted again by the law and by the justice system. I was never kept up to date as to what was going on.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">It’s like this really long process of literally nothing happening. It is like we’re talking about this guy, we have all this evidence of what he’s been doing and yet how many years has it been going on, and how long has literally nothing happened, nothing.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">After a yearlong investigation, police had completed interviews with dozens of girls like Michelle. Detectives even picked through Epstein’s trash and discovered incriminating messages on scraps of paper documenting phone calls.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“She is wondering if 2:30 is OK . . . She needs to stay in school,” read one document obtained during the course of our investigation.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Another slip of paper suggested that Epstein had had a bouquet of roses sent to one teen at her high school following a school performance.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">An Amazon packing slip addressed to Epstein that we obtained reveals he’d ordered some seriously disturbing reading material: <span class="italic">Slavecraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude</span>, <span class="italic">Training with Miss Abernathy: A Workbook for Erotic Slaves</span>, and <span class="italic">SM 101: A Realistic Introduction</span>.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Was his sexual exploitation confined to young girls? A piece of note paper obtained by cops and recovered by our team shows that someone jotted down the urls “<a href="http://TonyaWorld.com">TonyaWorld.com</a>” and “<a href="http://Trannsvicious.aol.com">Trannsvicious.aol.com</a>.” The former is still live at the time of this writing, featuring “T-Girls from All Over the World,” “Ethnic SheMales,” “Thousands of SheMales,” and “Direct Contacts” for the models on the site.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Armed with such details from their surveillance work, the police finally got the go-ahead to raid the home on El Brillo Way.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">A Palm Beach Police Department incident report obtained by the authors of this book describes the scene in Det. Joseph Recarey’s own words:</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentE">As we entered onto the property, we encountered the house manager, Janusz Banasiak, who was in the guest portion of the house. . . . The members of the Police Department entered the house and announced we had a search warrant.</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">Several interior decorators were located on the property. I spoke with Mark Zeff. . . . Mr. Zeff stated he is the designer for Mr. Epstein’s homes. He advised he was contacted in March of 2005 to do a complete overhaul on the house. He advised he was on the phone with Mr. Epstein when officers announced the search warrant. Mr. Epstein was then made aware of the search warrant. . . .</p>
<p class="paraIndentE">I entered the residence and located two covert (hidden) cameras. The first camera was a covert wall clock in the garage area. I traced the wire behind the clock and removed the RCA wire and unplugged the camera. The other covert camera was located within a desk clock beside Epstein’s desk.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Detective Joseph Recarey had actually been inside Epstein’s home before: back on October 5, 2003, when Epstein accused “a former disgruntled houseman” of stealing money from the house. He described what his team expected to find in his October 18, 2005, Affidavit &amp; Application for Search Warrant, obtained by this team: “I observed several covert cameras, which would capture and record images of anyone within the residence. Epstein had purchased covert cameras which were built in wall clocks and table clocks. These images were then downloaded onto a proprietary spyware software for later viewing.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Recarey noted that Epstein “told me that he had purchased a spy camera from a store on Okeechobee Blvd. and had set up the camera which was in a clock in his office.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Indeed, when they got permission and raided the home on October 20, 2005, they found a trove of files and recording materials. Evidence logs obtained by this team catalog the haul:</p>
<ul class="ul">
<li class="li">12 phone message books, filled with names and messages from his famous friends</li>
<li class="li">3 file folders of similar messages, ripped off of pads</li>
<li class="li">1 bag of shredded paper, found in his office</li>
<li class="li">1 orange folder marked “Massages”</li>
<li class="li">More than 123 photographs</li>
<li class="li">4 VHS tapes</li>
<li class="li">2 CDs marked “Happy birthday”</li>
<li class="li">63 CDs</li>
<li class="li">1 DVD</li>
<li class="li">16 Zip CDs</li>
<li class="li">12 8mm video tapes</li>
<li class="li">5 memory cards, as would be used in a digital camera</li>
<li class="li">11 floppy disks</li>
<li class="li">1 zip drive</li>
<li class="li">3 computer CPUs</li>
<li class="li">1 Maxell CD-R</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent">They also found other items that hinted at the depravity the house had hosted:</p>
<ul class="ul">
<li class="li">4 massage tables</li>
<li class="li">1 black framed photo of a nude girl</li>
<li class="li">1 green framed photo of a nude girl</li>
<li class="li">2 twin torpedo vibrators</li>
<li class="li">1 bottle of joy jelly</li>
<li class="li">3 X-rated videotapes: <span class="italic">Sex In City</span>, <span class="italic">Eat in Janine</span>, and <span class="italic">I Love Lesbians Four</span></li>
<li class="li">Penis- and vagina-shaped soaps</li>
<li class="li">1 school transcript</li>
</ul>
<p class="paraNoIndent">Still, something seemed off. Epstein’s pals, interior decorator and architect Douglas Schoettle were there when the raid occurred, and seemed unperturbed. The materials they managed to get their hands on weren’t a slam dunk for conviction. Some of Epstein’s recording devices and computers had been removed, cords left hanging when cops arrived. Had Epstein been tipped off?</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“The place had been cleaned up,” former detective Michael Reiter later told <span class="italic">NBC News</span>.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Still, by May 2006, Detective Recarey believed the case was bulletproof.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Recarey amassed a Probable Cause Affidavit filled with damning evidence against Epstein. The official document even included a description of Epstein’s distorted genitalia.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“It was thick towards the bottom but was thin and small towards the head portion,” a victim said, calling it, “egg-shaped.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Another victim told cops it’s “like a teardrop.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“It’s really fat at the bottom and skinny at the top,” she continued, making reference to “some sort of birth defect on his thing.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">But once the case got into the hands of the higher ups, the case did not proceed how the cops were expecting.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">According to Reiter, Epstein’s high-powered defense team, which included Kenneth Starr and Alan Dershowitz, seemed to know details about the cops’ case even before they emerged. (Starr was best known for heading an investigation of members of the Clinton administration; Dershowitz for serving on the legal “Dream Team” alongside Johnnie Cochran and F. Lee Bailey in the 1995 O. J. Simpson murder trial.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“We believed that the content of our probable cause affidavit eventually, some time after we presented it to the state attorney’s office, ended up with the defense attorneys,” Reiter said.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">“Because minute details that nobody else knew that were in those documents were being refuted and contrary information provided by the defense.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Furious, Reiter demanded that the state attorney, Barry Krischer, remove himself from the case. That didn’t go anywhere, so Recary brought the Department’s evidence to the FBI.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">When it became clear that the federal probe would encounter similar roadblocks, Reiter arranged a meeting with the prosecutor in charge of the case, US Attorney Alex Acosta: President Trump’s future secretary of labor.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Acosta put on a good show. Reiter said, “I left that meeting thinking, ‘This guy hopefully is going to do his job.’”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Reiter would be wrong.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>