<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Chapter09">
<p class="CN">CHAPTER 9</p>
<p class="CT"><span class="line">EPSTEIN: IN THE VICTIMS’ OWN WORDS</span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Police Victim Interview A</span></p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">Police:</span> Pepsi’s coming! First of all, I know you’re freaking out. Don’t freak out, just relax. I understand you may have information on a case that we’re looking into.</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">Victim:</span> I’m not gonna get in trouble for anything I say, right? . . .</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> How do you make money with Jeffrey?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> There’s two ways. . . . Every girl that meets Jeffrey starts off with giving him a massage. The more you do with him, the more you make. Basically, if you take off your clothes, you’re gonna make more. If you let him do things to you, you’re gonna make more . . . touch you in inappropriate places . . . He uses his hands, and I wouldn’t really call it a vibrator, I guess like a massager. I did it naked, but I wouldn’t let him touch me or anything like that. My friend told me that she knew a girl that slept with him and made $1000.</p>
<p class="paraC">So after that he’s like, “You know what? I’ll pay you $200 for every girl that you bring to me. I don’t want you to massage me anymore, just bring girls to me.”</p>
<p class="paraC">So for every girl that I brought to Jeffrey, I would make $200.</p>
<p class="paraC">He would tell me make sure these girls know what to expect, what they want. Because when I get into that room, they need to know.</p>
<p class="paraC">[One girl] came to me saying she needed money. . . . I basically told her about it and she was like, “Um what do you have to do?” I told her, I was like, “The more you do, the more you make.”</p>
<p class="paraC">You’re gonna take your clothes off. But the more you do, the more you make.</p>
<p class="paraC">She gave him a massage and she basically let him like touch her, down there . . . When she got in the car I was like, “How much did you make?” and she said, $300, and I just knew right then that she did more. I asked her like, “What did you do?” She’s like, “Well I started doing the massage and my clothes came off, and he put his fingers inside me.” . . .</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> How old were you when you were approached to go see Jeffrey?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Umm . . . 16 or 17.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> How many girls have you brought to him?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Oh . . . a lot.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Who else was underage?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> What do you mean, like under 18? All of them.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did Jeff know anybody’s real true age, or did he care?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> I don’t think he cared. He told me, the younger the better. I tried to bring him a woman who was 23 and he didn’t really like it . . .</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Police Victim Interview B</span></p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> It was in high school, everybody was trying to make money. I had two jobs.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Do you have any formal massage training?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> No . . . It seems really weird, the whole situation. There were more girls in the house. And then we just go upstairs it was a massage room and he came like you know and I give him a massage.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did you recall anything weird when you were going up the stairs?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> The pictures.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Pictures of what?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="bold">V:</span> Naked people . . .</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> I sit down there and she tells me, “Just wait a second.” So she comes back and we put down the little bed for the massage. And she’s like, “OK there’s some lotion and he’ll be right out.” So he comes in and says, “OK . . . just a massage.” He took his clothes off, and he was in like a towel.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> At any point did he ask you to remove your clothes?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yeah. And I say no. [sic]</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> So you continue with the massage?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yeah. It was kind of weird I guess.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> How much did he pay you?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> $200.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> During the time that you’re massaging him on his chest, is he touching himself?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yes . . . Well you know he started getting a little excited. And he started touching himself and I told him to stop.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> You mean by touching himself, you mean he was masturbating?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yes. He like had his hand under the towel. . . .</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> He offered you more money to get naked?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yes. Well, he told me just to take my shirt off. I was just scared that he was going to do something.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did you ever get naked while doing the massages?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Once, but it was in my underwear. It was never completely naked. I think there was one where I took my bra off, but that was it. He offered me more money if I have [sic] sex with him, and I said that’s never gonna happen. It’s not what I’m gonna do for money.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did he offer you more to do more things?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yah. $100 more just to take my shirt off. He tried to talk to you just to make you comfortable with the situation. Like go where are you working. How much do you make at your work. He starts saying you can make more with me. I didn’t feel like it was right.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Police Victim Interview C</span></p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> She took me over to the house. She waited downstairs. I just went upstairs and gave him a massage and that was it. She’s like oh do you know do you need to make any extra money. . . . This older guy in Palm Beach, he gets a lot of massages from girls. He asked me to take my shirt off, so I took my shirt off.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> So, were you in a bra or were you topless?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> I ended up being topless, yeah . . . for a while I was doing it like once a week for a few months. Probably somewhere around there . . .</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did you ever take your panties off and be completely nude?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Every now and then yeah.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> He touch himself?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yes . . . he would masturbate</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did you ever bring anybody to the house?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> Yes I did. Neither one of them wanted to go back though.</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Police Victim Interview D</span></p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> I was short on rent one month and she told me all I had to do was give him a massage and he would give me $200. . . . I thought about it and I was like I really need the money. I asked my parents and they couldn’t give me the money. I asked everyone I knew. So, I went there, and I gave him the massage and it was a weird situation.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did you provide the massage with clothing on?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> All I had was underwear on. She did not tell me that. I was absolutely surprised when I got there. I knew nothing. He had a towel over his private parts and he was just laying on a table and I was just massaging from the knee down for about 45 minutes . . . ten minutes before we were getting ready to leave he asked her to leave because we were in the room together, and he asked me to massage his chest and he had the towel on. And about 5 minutes into it he took the towel off and started pleasing himself, which I was very uncomfortable with. Like I wanted to leave right when I got there.</p>
<p class="paraC">I’m sorry I don’t like thinking back on it, it was so . . .</p>
<p class="paraC">When he started pleasing himself he got up and went over to a drawer and he pulled out this vibrator thing and then he pulled down my panties . . . it was like this stick with a knob on it. He didn’t like stick it inside me but he put it on me.</p>
<p class="paraC">He just got up and walked out. He’s like, “OK you can put your clothes on,” and he closed the door. After he walked out and when I went out, I went downstairs and he was down there and there were like there other girls there. I guess they stayed there or something.</p>
<p class="paraQF"><span class="boldf1">P:</span> Did he say anything to you while you were doing the massage?</p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> He was talking about art and everything like that and you know just the paintings on the walls that he had and stuff like that. The whole situation was odd. Before we even got out of the car when we just pulled up she said, “Don’t say anything. Don’t speak unless you’re spoken to.” So I was like, “What the hell are you getting me into?” So, I didn’t say anything and there were pictures, pencil drawings of naked people. It looked really weird. . . . I am so ashamed that I did that because it’s not like me . . .</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Police Victim Interview E</span></p>
<p class="paraAF"><span class="boldf1">V:</span> I told her that I didn’t want to be left alone with someone because I was molested when I was 12, so just like me being alone like right now I’m kinda uncomfortable and I told her that like I’m not going if you’re not gonna be there with me and I was unaware that I was gonna be alone with him for that ten minutes and I thought I was gonna die . . .</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #1:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I still feel like I am learning the ways that he’s impacted me.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Even though Jeffrey Epstein brought it to a grand scale, on some level, a lot of girls could relate to the trauma we are talking about.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #2:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I think each of us has a different story and different circumstances for why we stayed in it, but for me, I think he was really strategic in how he approached each of us. Things happened slowly over time. It was almost like that analogy of a frog being in a pan of water and slowly turning the flame up.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“A lot of us were in very vulnerable situations and in extreme poverty, circumstances where we didn’t have anyone on our side.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #3:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“My world kind of spiraled after that. I stopped going on modeling castings. I gained weight. I became depressed. I stopped going out with my friends. And only five months after I had been in New York City to pursue my dream, I left. I left the modeling industry, I left New York City, and I totally switched my career path.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #4:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“We will always carry irreparable damage and pain throughout our lives after this. It’s something that’s never going to go away. Whoever we marry in our life, whatever future we have in our life, it’s always going to be something that’s always there for us.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #5:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“You paid for your freedom. You violated my rights. You should have to pay for them, just as anyone else. You got a plea deal no one else would have been able to get. You used your money to get out of paying the price for your actions.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #6:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Jeffrey Epstein stole my innocence. He gave me a life sentence of guilt and shame. I do not consider myself a victim. I see myself a survivor.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #7:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I used to be relatively carefree, inquisitive, hopeful, and excited about life, but my life changed because of Jeffrey Epstein. My perspective on life became very dark when I was unknowingly recruited by one of his agents. Jeffrey Epstein ruined me.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #8:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I cannot say that I am pleased he committed suicide, but I am at peace knowing he will not be able to hurt anyone else. However, the sad truth remains. I, along with other people, will never have an answer as to why. I will never have an apology for the wrongdoing. And most importantly, Epstein will not be justly sentenced for his crimes.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #9:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“When I was fifteen years old, I flew on Jeffrey Epstein’s plane to Zorro Ranch, where I was sexually molested by him for many hours. What I remember most vividly was him explaining to me how beneficial the experience was for me and how much he was helping me to grow.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I remember feeling so small and powerless, especially after he positioned me by laying me on his floor so that I was confronted by all the framed photographs on his dresser of him smiling with wealthy celebrities and politicians.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #10:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Epstein targeted and took advantage of me, a young girl, whose mother had recently died a horrific death and whose family structure had deteriorated. His actions placed me, a young girl, into a downward spiral to the point where I purchased a gun and drove myself to an isolated place to end my suffering.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #11:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“He promised me that he would write me a letter of recommendation for Harvard if I got the grades and scores needed for admission. His word was worth a lot, he assured me, as he was in the midst of funding and leading Harvard’s studies on the human brain, and the president was his friend.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I had never even kissed a boy before I met him, and never throughout the horrific abuse did Jeffrey Epstein kiss me even once. When he stole my virginity, he washed my entire body compulsively in the shower and then told me, ‘If you’re not a virgin, I will kill you.’ And then I wasn’t a virgin anymore.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jane Doe #12:</span> An anonymous victim who spoke in court against Epstein on August 27, 2019, seventeen days after his death</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“They told me to go upstairs and directed me to Jeffrey Epstein’s office. Mr. Epstein had a white robe on and we chatted very briefly. I had my portfolio of photos, but he didn’t even look at it. Suddenly, he took his robe off and got close to me. I got up to leave, but the door was locked.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Chauntae Davies</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I began my massage, trying not to let him smell my fear and obvious discomfort, but before I knew what was happening, he grabbed onto my wrist and tugged me towards the bed. I tried to pull away, but he was unbuttoning my shorts and pulling my body onto his already naked body faster than I could think. I was searching for words but all I could say was, ‘No, please stop,’ but that just seemed to excite him more.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Marijke Chartouni</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“She told me he went to Cooper Union. He was a mathematical genius. That he had favorite girls that he would take to Chanel for fifteen-minute, all-you-can-buy shopping trips. She told me his right-hand person had connection to the arts and the fashion world, and she could help me.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Jennifer Araoz</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“He robbed me of my dreams. He robbed me of my chance to pursue a career I always adored. He stole my chance at really feeling love because I was so scared to trust anyone for so many years that I had such severe anxiety. I didn’t want to leave my house, let alone my bed.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“The fact that I will never have a chance to face my predator in court eats away at my soul. Even in death, Epstein is trying to hurt me. I had hoped to at last get an apology, but this evil man had no remorse or caring for what he did to anyone.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Alicia Arden</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“He was touching my hips and my butt, and wanting to lift my skirt up. He said he wanted to manhandle me. I filed a police report but I really wasn’t taken seriously. My family, my friends discouraged me because I wasn’t physically raped. I was assaulted, he was touching me and taking my clothes off, and I felt if I didn’t get out of there it could’ve been worse.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“So did it need to be worse? Did I need to be raped for anyone to take me seriously?”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Teala<a id="_idTextAnchor001"/> Davies</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I was going to start this statement by saying that I was a victim of Jeffrey Epstein. But that’s not the case. I’m still a victim of Jeffrey Epstein. I’m still a victim because the fear of not being heard stopped me from telling my story for so many years. . . . I’m still a victim because I am fearful for my daughters and everyone’s daughters. . . . I’m still a victim because the seventeen-year-old Teala was manipulated into thinking she had found someone who cared, someone who wanted to help.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Courtney Wild</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Jeffrey Epstein robbed myself and all the other victims of our day in court to confront him one by one, and for that he is a coward.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Anouska De Georgiou</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Something I think is very important to communicate is that loss of innocence, trust, and joy that is not recoverable. The abuse, spanning several years, was devaluing beyond measure and affected my ability to form and maintain healthy relationships, both in my work and my personal life. He could not begin to fathom what he took from us.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Michelle Licata</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“What happened to me occurred many years ago when I was in high school, but it still affects my life. I was told then that Jeffrey Epstein was going to be held accountable, but he was not. In fact, the government worked out a secret deal and didn’t tell me about it. . . . The fact that I mattered this time and the other victims mattered is what counts.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Theresa J. Helm</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“That experience for the last seventeen years has been a dark corner in my story. . . . So I’m here today because it is time to bring light to that darkness, and it’s time to replace that darkness with light.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Virginia Roberts Giuffre</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“He will not have his day in court, but the reckoning of accountability has begun, supported by the voices of these brave and beautiful women in this courtroom today. The reckoning must not end—it must continue. He did not act alone and we, the victims, know that.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Sarah Ransome</span></p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“I would like to acknowledge and extend my gratitude to the prosecutors from the Southern District of New York for pursuing justice on behalf of the victims. Please, please finish what you have started.</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“We, the victims, are still here, prepared to tell the truth, and we all know he did not act alone. We are survivors, and the pursuit of justice should not abate.”</p>
<p class="paraNoIndentT"><span class="bold">Annie Farmer</span> (Speaking on behalf of her sister Maria Farmer)</p>
<p class="paraIndentF">“Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell not only assaulted her, but as we’re hearing from so many of these brave women here today, they stole her dreams and her livelihood. She risked her safety in 1996, so many years ago, to report them—to no avail—and it is heartbreaking to her and to me that all this destruction has been wrought since that time.”</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>