<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Epstein</title>
<link href="../Styles/Stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1d1da99f-a21a-4695-a508-0b1e4b0ccfb1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Epilogue">
<p class="CT1"><span class="line">EPILOGUE</span></p>
<p class="paraNoIndent">In the final days and hours of completing this book, disturbing new discoveries about the crimes and connections of Jeffrey Epstein continued to surface.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Even after reporting on him together for years, we found deeper and deeper layers of deception than we had ever known. As we gathered in team researching and writing sessions, the silence would be broken every few moments by one of us saying, “Oh my God.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">There isn’t time or space to connect and reveal every single detail we discovered. (Although, we’ll probably spend the rest of our lives trying.) This book represents the best and most compelling reporting that we’ve ever done on Epstein and his cohorts. But this epilogue represents one of the spine-tingling stories that made our jaws drop when we discovered it—a story that could have been a book all on its own.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The summary is this: Donald Trump’s personal fixer Michael Cohen and Jeffrey Epstein are <span class="italic">both</span> tied to a company called Reporty (now named Carbyne), which was then in the early stages of creating a new spy-like technology.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">(Convicted felon Cohen plead guilty on August 21, 2018, to eight counts, including campaign finance violations, tax fraud, and bank fraud. Cohen said he violated campaign finance laws at the direction of Trump and “for the principal purpose of influencing” the 2016 presidential election. In November 2018, Cohen entered a second guilty plea for lying to a Senate committee about efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. In December 2018, he was sentenced to three years in federal prison and ordered to pay a $50,000 fine.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The stated purpose of Epstein and Cohen’s business alliance in Carbyne was to help 911 callers by connecting the dispatch system to their cellphones’ microphone, GPS, and camera, giving the dispatcher a live feed of the caller’s surroundings. The obvious implication is that the same technology could easily be used to execute widespread spying and blackmail, to an extent the world has never before seen.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The explosive story of Carbyne’s background was first published by reporters Zev Shalev and Tracie McElroy of <a href="http://Narativ.org">Narativ.org</a>.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In September 2017, Russian billionaires Viktor Vekselberg and Andrew Intrater bought 24 percent of Carbyne’s most valuable stock options, through Intrater’s company Columbus Nova.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">(Intrater donated $250,000 to Trump’s inauguration fund, and has already donated thousands to his 2020 campaign. His company also paid Cohen half a million dollars in “consulting fees.” He was investigated by Robert Mueller’s Special Counsel team.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In 2015, the <span class="italic">Times of Israel</span> reported, Ehud Barak had formed a limited partnership company called Sum and bought all of Reporty’s Series A stock—with most of the millions he needed to do so coming from Jeffrey Epstein. (It wasn’t the first time he’d gotten millions thanks to Epstein. In 2004, Barak received about $2.4 million from Leslie Wexner’s Wexner Foundation, where Epstein was both a trustee and major donor.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Barak’s cash infusion was enough to win him a seat as chairman of the board at Reporty, now Carbyne. The company is now based in Tel Aviv.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">(In a twist that is sure to titillate Tom Brady haters, the Kraft Group is also a major investment source.)</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In 2019, Carbyne partnered with Windbourne Consulting, a mysterious company that calls itself a “leader in public safety communications consulting and project management services to international, federal, state and local governments.” Their headquarters is a mere five minutes away from the Pentagon.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Calling the technology “Smart911,” Windbourne has already implemented Carbyne in the United States. Although, they may not want you to know about it.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">A May 2017 Windbourne newsletter touted the platform’s rollout in Michigan, announcing that the governor there had dedicated $2.2 million in grant funding to make the technology available to all residents. Anyone who put Smart911 on their phone and gave it access to their camera, mic, and GPS would get an eighteen-month subscription for free, the newsletter explained. The company also touted an oddly suspicious story from 2014, where a Michigan man who just happened to have Smart911 already installed was saved from a fire because of the app. The government and company encouraged all residents to download it.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">But sometime after June 2019, in the weeks leading up to Epstein’s arrest, that newsletter was wiped from the Windbourne website.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">You may not have heard of it, but “Smart911” already has been implemented by local governments—and put on Americans’ cellphones—in South Carolina, Ohio, Kentucky, Florida, Arkansas, New York, California, Massachusetts, Hawaii and more. According to Windbourne, Smart911 is in forty states at the time of this writing.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">Newer versions of Smart911 reportedly also can access your personal photos, medical and health information, and other details.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The company insists, “It is <span class="italic">NOT</span> the goal of Smart911 to spy on you or share your information with anyone or any organization without cause.”</p>
<p class="paraIndent">The only consolation in the twisted story of Jeffrey Epstein may be that in the future, exploitative spies like him will probably become obsolete. Instead, we’ll willingly gather intelligence on ourselves.</p>
<p class="paraIndent">In 2020, who needs the classic honey trap when you’ve got the app?</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>